# Least Cost Path and Interpolation Projects

### Part 1: Least Cost Path

This suitability modeling lab required the creation of an ETL pipeline for all the data that was imputed into the cost surface model. This lab features a storyline of a character named Dory –to practice creating cost surface models based on specific criteria and preferences and then to create a map of the range of cost surfaces given the uncertain preferences and model weights. The story you ask? Dory is a fictional character who has the goal to travel from her home (44.127985, -92.148796) to the Whitewater State Park (North Picnic Area) for the purpose of fly fishing, but wants to take the optimal route given her preferences of: not crossing through farm fields (muddy conditions), not crossing through water bodies (unless she has her waders), and the path that is most graudal in terms of slope. This story helps understand how uncertainty in the characters preferences (model weights) may impact the cost surface model. Ultimately, the question remains and is answered: What is the optimal route for Dory to take to get to her fly fishing spot near Whitewater State Park in SE Minnesota given different model weights? 

### Part 2: Interpolation

The purpose of this lab was to build a functional real-time data pipeline for the purposes of visualization and analysis of the data. The North Dakota Agricultural Weather Network’s (NDAWN) data was extracted into the pipeline to examine the last 30 days of temperature data to create a final map product. The data was station points of the average monthly temperature, maximum temperatures, and minimum temperatures from the last 30 days. The data used three different methods of interpolation: Inverse Distance Weighting, Kriging, and Diffusion with Barriers. This resulted in a total of nine different interpolation outputs. Understanding and interpreting data is critical and must be informed by ESRI’s decision guide and other literature within the field. In the discipline of geography, the practical application and analysis of spatial data outputs play a crucial role in deepening our insights into spatial patterns and relationships. Concepts such as Tobler's First Law, spatial autocorrelation, and the alpha parameter in interpolation methods contribute significantly to our understanding and other’s understanding into the rationale and importance of this type of spatial analysis. 
